---
title: Hearing Procedure
date: 2020-05-21 10:00:00 +0000

---
The hearing is conducted by a Hearing Examiner appointed by the General Manager of the Department. The Hearing Examiner will begin by reading an opening statement informing the parties of the procedures for the hearing and basic terminology. The Examiner will also administer an oath to everyone present who intends to testify. All testimony given must be the truth; lying while under oath is perjury, a criminal offense. For the hearing, the alleged victim is referred to as the “Complaining Witness” and the animal owner is referred to as the “Respondent.”

The Examiner will then begin asking questions to the Complaining Witness. Some of the questions the Hearing Examiner asks will be based upon a document called “Exhibit 1.” Exhibit 1 is a summary of the preliminary investigation of the incident conducted by a Department Animal Control Officer. (Animal owners should receive an advance copy of Exhibit 1 in the mail with their summons. If you are a Respondent in an upcoming hearing and did not receive a copy of Exhibit 1, YOU CAN REQUEST ONE HERE. The Complaining Witness may also submit any additional relevant photographs or documents during this time. Finally, the Respondent will have an opportunity to cross-examine the Complaining Witness.

This process will be repeated with any additional witnesses who plan to testify on behalf of the Complaining Witness. Finally, the Hearing Examiner will ask questions of the Respondent, and the Complaining Witness will have an opportunity to cross-examine them afterward. The process will be repeated for any additional witnesses who plan to testify on behalf of the Respondent. Because the Respondent and their animal are presumed innocent until proven otherwise, the Respondent may choose not to testify at all if they feel that insufficient evidence has been presented against them.